(A) Corporate Mission:
IndianOil nurtures the core values of Care, Innovation, Passion & Trust across the organization in order the deliver value to its stakeholders. Company setting high standards for ethics and value, people leading with passion to excel, Pioneering the Sprit of creativity and research, caring for the environment and community, harnessing frontier technology and Fostering relationships for life time.

(B) Business Operations :
Refineries

The group refining capacity is 80.75 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA, .i.e. 1.62 million barrels per day approx.). IndianOil is operating the oldest refinery of Asia in Digboi and the youngest & one of the most modern refineries of the country in Paradip. IndianOil refineries process all major indigenous crude oil plus over more than 100 types of imported crude oil, from which it produces more than 70 types of petroleum products, ranging from distillates, such as LPG, Naphtha and Motor Spirit, ATF and HSD, to heavy ends such as furnace oil, Marpol FO and Bitumen of different grades. The diverse configuration with petrochemical integration of refineries allows IndianOil refineries to produce petrochemicals such as LAB , PTA, Polypropylene, MEG & Sulphuric Acid and speciality products like LOBS and Wax. As a continuous effort towards improvement of product pattern, product quality, improvement of energy efficiency as well as to meet the dynamic environmental emission norms and to improve profit margin, IndianOil refineries have adopted most modern technologies in line with the latest worldwide developments in the field of petroleum refining and petrochemicals production. The flexibility of processing capability allows IndianOil to vary both its crude oil inputs and petroleum product outputs to achieve the company’s desired product mix. IndianOil refineries are fully equipped to meet the current environmental norms in relation to product specifications in the country and are being constantly modernized and upgraded to be able to meet all future environment regulatory requirements. IndianOil refineries are now supplying BS VI grade fuels to the country. IndianOil refineries at Gujarat & Haldia are also one of the first refineries to produce and make available IMO 2020 compliant 0.5% Sulphur Marpol Grade Furnace Oil. Also IOC refineries are now producing and make available XP100 superior grade MS having 100 RON.

Pipelines

IndianOil operates a pipeline network of over 20,000 km, comprising crude oil, petroleum product, and gas pipelines, with a throughput capacity of approximately 129 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) of oil and around 49 million metric standard cubic meters per day (MMSCMD) of gas. In 2024–25, with the addition of 261 km of pipelines in a single financial year so far, the network length has increased from 19,744 km to 20,005 km.

Key additions include the Paradip-Haldia-Barauni-Motihari LPG pipeline (India’s longest), various sections of the Paradip-Hyderabad Product Pipeline, and other major projects like the Paradip-Somnathpur-Haldia, Haldia-Barauni, Koyali-Ahmednagar-Solapur, and ETBPNMT-R LNG pipelines, along with new sections such as the Jatni-Bhubaneshwar ATF, Dumad-Hariyala, Jasidih twin pipeline, and Motihari-Amlekhganj Phase 2.

IndianOil also continues to offer its expertise to external projects. For instance, EPMC services for the Palakkad Receipt Terminal to Salem Bottling Plant via Coimbatore and Erode (under Kochi Salem Pipeline Pvt. Ltd. - KSPPL) were awarded to the Pipelines Division on 12.06.2024.

With vast in-house project management capabilities and a skilled manpower pool, IndianOil executes all pipeline projects from concept to commissioning, reinforcing its position as a leader in pipeline infrastructure development in India.
